Amazon S3
 

Lab overview
 
Objectives
 
Create an S3 bucket. 
Upload an object into this bucket. 
Access the object by using a web browser. 
List the contents of the S3 bucket by using the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI). 


Task 1: Connecting to the CLI Host instance
To start the challenge, you connect to the CLI Host instance that is already provisioned for you.

On the AWS Management Console, in the Search bar, enter and choose EC2 to open the EC2 Management Console.

In the navigation pane, choose Instances.

From the list of instances, select the CLI Host instance.

Choose Connect.

On the EC2 Instance Connect tab, choose Connect.

Note: If you prefer to use an SSH client to connect to the EC2 instance, see the guidance to Connect to Your Linux Instance.

Now that you are connected to the CLI Host instance, you can configure and use the AWS CLI to call AWS services.

 

Task 2: Configuring the AWS CLI
To set up the AWS CLI profile with credentials, run the following command in the EC2 Instance Connect terminal:

aws configure
At the prompts, copy the following values that you pasted into your text editor, and paste them into the terminal window as directed.

AWS Access Key ID: Enter the value for AccessKey.

AWS Secret Access Key: Enter the value for SecretKey.

Default region name: Enter us-west-2.

Default output format: Enter json.

Now you are ready to run AWS CLI commands to interact with AWS services.

 

Task 3: Finishing the challenge
To finish the challenge, do the following:

Create an S3 bucket. 

Upload an object into this bucket.

Try to access the object by using a web browser. 

Make the object (not the bucket) publicly accessible.

Access the object by using a web browser. 

List the contents of the S3 bucket by using the AWS CLI. 

Hint: You may refer to the relevant sections of the course which teaches S3. Additional documentation links are provided in the references section.

Note: As you complete these challenges, capture screenshots to submit to your instructor.

 

 

 
